[INAUDIBLE]
[GASPS]
[BREATHING HEAVILY]
[SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC PLAYING]
[COUGHING]
[GASPING]
[SIGHS]
Bless you.
MAN: Can't eat those, Alice.
Didn't mean to startle you.
We all need to get away
from the smell of that place
sometimes, don't we?
Are those
for medicinal purposes?
I've been meaning
to pay you a visit.
We've missed you
and your mother
at prayer recently.
All is well, I trust?
During these troubling times,
it's more important than ever
that we maintain our faith
in the Lord.
Always a pleasure, Alice.
[MEN COUGHING]
[SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC PLAYING]
[BANGING ON DOOR]
[THUDDING]
ALICE: [CRYING] No.
-TOM: I tried to warn
you, Alice.
-[ALICE SOBBING]
You know the law.
ALICE: No!
Please don't harm her.
She was only doing my bidding.
[BREATHING HEAVILY]
May the Lord have mercy
on your soul.
ALICE: [SCREAMING] Please, no!
[ALICE SOBBING]
TOM: It had to be done, Alice.
She's gone
to a better place.
[MAN COUGHS]
[SCREAMS] No!
-No!
-WOMAN: Alice.
[BREATH TREMBLING]
[CRYING]
[INAUDIBLE]
I wanted to offer you
my apologies for what happened.
I understand why you concealed
your mother's condition.
But I hope
you understand why I...
Why we could not allow it
to continue.
The Cleanser wanted to hold you
to account for your actions,
but I convinced him
that you're young,
and that your emotions
got the better of you.
We've all been affected
by these tragic times...
but if we're to see
our way through,
we must maintain our faith
in the Lord...
And our faith in one another.
We need to support each other
and come together
as a community.
It's more important now
than ever before.
You can't stay
here alone, Alice.
It's not safe.
A woman of your age should
have a man to look after
her well-being.
I want to offer you a place
in my home.
By my side.
If the Lord has seen fit
to spare you and I,
who are we to turn our back
on his wishes?
[SPITS]
Will you not even deign
to speak with me out of anger?
Ungrateful wretch!
You'll be begging
for my kindness soon enough,
I assure you.
Beware, a devil has possessed
that one!
Thank you all for coming.
I know some of you would prefer
not to meet like this.
But in light of tragic recent
losses, it's clear
that avoiding each other,
is not the answer.
-[THUNDER RUMBLING]
-We've lost our farmers,
hunters, doctor, blacksmith.
We've all lost family.
Our way of life is hanging
on the precipice.
If the plague doesn't take us,
then starvation surely will.
We must be united both
in our prayer and in our cause.
The Lord does have
a plan for us,
-and we must not lose--
-The Cleanser said
the worst was behind us.
He said cases
were in the decline.
Six more this week.
And who know who will be next.
He assures me that other towns
have seen a drop.
Whatever he's doing here,
it isn't working!
Not people keeping
their symptoms secret!
Where is Alice Thomas?
She broke the law
and now my Richard is dead!
Why is she not here
being held to account?
Is it because you harbor
affections for her?
Of course not.
She's not present because
I wanted to discuss
the matter with you all first.
I know what you think.
You have me wrong.
It is my belief that there is
something wrong with the girl.
Her silence is one thing,
and then again there is her
wicked demeanor.
Aye, she nigh on spat
at me this morning.
Her family have always meddled
with the unnatural.
Her father was a doctor.
A good man. He's helped many
of you in his day.
TOM: And yet he died
in circumstances most unusual.
Upon reflection,
I cannot help but wonder
whether this cursed plague
may not have begun with him.
Her parents both perish,
yet she remains unaffected.
Perhaps it was their meddling
with the unholy that was
the cause of all this.
She's just a child.
Yes, the only youth left.
We know all too well
that the young were
the first to succumb
and yet again, she lives on.
VICTORIA: She's probably
the cause of it all.
Bewitched by the devil
to lay a curse upon this land.
These accusations are baseless.
TOM: Then let her speak
her defense.
If she has strayed
from the light,
then we shall soon uncover it.
VICTORIA: The Cleanser
will make her talk.
No. No, it'll be too long
before he next returns.
We cannot afford to wait.
Then what you propose we do?
TOM: If she is indeed bewitched,
it is my belief that I can
obtain a confession from her.
[MARY SCOFFS]
I will give her fair opportunity
to make her case.
She will be tried and tested
under the eyes of God,
and in accordance with the law.
You have my word.
We must root out evil,
wherever it resides
and whatever form it takes.
I ask you all to pray
for her soul,
that we may cleanse it
on the morrow.
[KNOCK AT DOOR]
TOM: Come in.
Mary.
Thank you for bringing her
to us without incident.
Tom, I... I thought we would
discuss this is a civil manner.
We will.
Come. Sit.
Come.
This is the Lord's prayer.
I want you to read it aloud
without stutter or hesitation.
Read it.
The Lord's prayer ought to be
in the hearts
and minds of every
good Christian soul.
It is said,
that under the eyes of God,
the truly Holy will read
the prayer unfaltering.
If you falter, Alice,
we will know that your heart
and mind have been occupied
by something other.
We will know that you have
been touched by the devil.
-MARY: Tom.
-Quiet.
Just read the words, Alice.
Let us hear your voice
so we may know
what resides inside.
MARY: Just read it, child.
Read it!
Must you make it so hard
on yourself?
So hard on us all?
There are other ways
of determining allegiance
to the devil,
but I am afraid you will
find them far more
uncomfortable.
We have no choice
but to search you
for the devil's mark.
[ALICE GRUNTING]
[MARY GRUNTING]
Leave her be.
[ALICE CRYING]
MARY: Let go!
Let her go!
When a body is touched
by the devil,
he leaves his mark.
Just read the prayer, child.
You can speak,
I know you can.
It's too late for that now.
Take down her garments.
Thomas, please!
Get out!
MARY: May God forgive me, Alice.
[ALICE WHIMPERING]
[INAUDIBLE]
Leave us for a moment, please.
[DOOR CLOSES]
We found no marks,
Alice.
Nothing that would
give me reason
to believe you are a witch.
Whether that is enough
to establish your innocence
is up to you.
I can protect you
from the others.
I can make this stop
right now.
All you have to do
is give yourself to me.
Do that,
and I will tell the others...
my investigation
was satisfied
and your innocence
established.
If you do not agree
to these terms,
I will have no choice
but to proceed
with a trial.
-So what will it be?
-[SPITS]
Come with me.
We shall conduct
a trial by water.
[GASPING]
TOM: Confess.
Speak the Lord's Prayer
and cleanse your wicked soul.
[GASPING]
Bring her up.
The longer you remain silent,
the longer this will continue.
Speak now and release
the devil within you.
Speak, you witch.
-Speak!
-In the name of God!
Speak, child!
TOM: Bring her up.
[GASPING]
[COUGHING]
Do you wish to die here today?
Speak, girl. It is your
only hope of salvation.
The devil has her tongue,
Thomas.
Drown her! It's the only way
to lift the curse.
TOM: Alice,
do you have any words?
[BUBBLING]
This isn't working.
-Keep her under.
-I shall do as I see fit!
Enough!
[GASPING]
-[COUGHING]
-What now?
VICTORIA: Tom!
Do not look upon her.
She is using her female form
to elicit your sympathies.
Evil thrives on the compassion
of the merciful.
Bring her back to the village.
Wait.
You stop now?
She's feigning defeat!
You know a witch
can't be trusted!
She killed my husband!
Put her back in!
Death is no less
than she deserves.
TOM: If we merely kill her,
there is no certainty
the curse will be lifted.
She must speak the words.
Clearly water
has been ineffective,
so we will have
to use fire instead.
Go ask him then.
So what do we do now?
She shall be required
to hold a stone of hot flame
until her hands
are scorched.
A witch, in league
with the devil,
will heal
with an unnatural speed.
Such is the power
he grants
his unholy servants.
This is madness.
Where did you hear
of such things?
Do not question me.
Or I may ask why
you are so keen to defend
this girl.
For three days, she shall
be detained and observed.
If her wounds appear
uncommonly healed
by the end of that time,
we shall know for certain
that she is a witch.
She may hold her silence...
but the body will
reveal the truth.
This is
your last chance, Alice.
Say the word,
and I will place
the Bible in your hands
instead of the stone.
But you must confess.
Now, before it is too late.
[SHUDDERING]
[ALICE GRUNTING]
At last you wake.
Three days
you'll be up there.
Three days is all
I have to wait
to get justice
for my Richard.
Unless you choose
to confess, of course,
I've been waiting
for you to confess all day
but now,
looking at you up there,
I've changed my mind.
Keep your mouth shut,
I say.
Mull it over
for a few more days
and then let us hang you,
proper like.
That's it.
Take your rest.
TOM: It didn't have
to be like this.
You have made it so.
I recall when you
and your parents
first moved here.
You were only
a child then.
Always running around,
interrupting my sermons.
Couldn't shut you up
back then.
There were those
that complained
of your free-spiritedness.
Not me.
I thought you were
a little angel.
You've blossomed now.
Quite the beauty
to behold.
But something
has gone rotten inside you.
A rot that has spread
to everyone
and everything else.
There's only one way
to deal with rot.
Cut it out
and dispose of it.
I'm so sorry, child.
If I had known that
they would take it this far
I would never have
gone along with it.
I hope you believe me.
I'm not a devil.
I know it.
I know it,
but you need to tell them.
Speak to them,
maybe they'll let you go.
Why not?
What other way is there?
There is no other option.
Let me down, Mary.
You need to run.
You need to run as fast
and as far as you can.
When The Cleanser finds out
what has transpired
here tonight
he'll come looking for you.
You must go now.
Don't worry about me. Go.
TOM: Give us this day
our daily bread
and forgive us
our trespasses.
[KNOCKING AT DOOR]
She's gone.
How?
Who's on watch?
Mary.
She claims...
she claims
the girl bewitched her.
I'll deal with her afterward.
We must gather
a search party.
-She can't have gone far.
-WALTER: You want
to bring her back?
She's gone.
That's what we wanted,
isn't it?
WALTER: She won't
survive long out there,
not without food, shelter.
We don't know
what she's capable of, Walter.
The trial was not completed.
She bewitched Mary,
is that not proof enough?
Do you really believe that?
I don't know,
but she's gone.
We should take that
as a blessing.
We'll count our blessings
when the curse has been lifted.
Finding her
is the only way to be certain.
Come on.
[VOICE GROWLING]
[SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC PLAYING]
[GASPS]
[MUFFLED]
MAN: Oh, you shouldn't
be awake yet.
Stay still.
Shh.
[INDISTINCT]
[GASPS]
Are you hungry?
You won't be able
to run yet.
I'd eat instead.
It's venison.
I'm sorry about before.
I have a lot here
I need to protect.
Do you speak?
You must be thirsty.
There's water
by the fire.
You didn't find her?
Well, at least that means
she must be far from here.
I think we should
be thankful.
She won't survive
long out there.
Alone.
Things can return
to normal now, soon enough.
She won't dare come back.
Let The Cleanser look for her
if he so wishes.
She's his responsibility now.
We're just left with
Mary to deal with.
What have you done
with her?
TORR: Are you
staying or going?
The door must close
either way.
I won't hurt you, girl.
Have no fear.
They are roots.
Very rare.
Very valuable.
Are you interested
in such things?
The smoke from this root
will open your eyes
to what's inside your heart.
Fears, desires,
they can manifest, but,
you must remember
they are not real.
Does such talk
frighten you?
[INHALES]
What you see [INHALES]
could be guidance,
or a warning.
Some say they are
messages from the gods.
Slow.
It is very strong.
You must grow accustomed
to it slowly.
[INHALES DEEPLY]
If evil should
come upon us,
the sword, or judgment
or pestilence, or famine,
[INHALES]
we will stand before
this house
and before you,
for your name
is in this house...
[INHALES]
[CONTINUES INDISTINCTLY]
[GASPS]
[BREATHING HEAVILY]
[BONES CLANKING]
Stop!
Inhaling that
will boil your insides.
It must be kept away from water.
These are my most
treasured possessions.
I apologize
if my ways seem strange.
I don't keep
much company these days.
I'd like to take another look
at your hands.
Did you apply the garlic
and bandages yourself before?
You have
a knowledge of medicine?
I've always been fascinated
by nature's secrets.
How the simplest of ingredients
can create not only medicine,
but also weapons.
When I was a young man my...
I'd travel far, far from here
to a land where the...
The sun shone so brightly that
it turned the earth into sand.
The people speak in tongues
and have the most...
strange customs.
I worked on a ship...
with my father.
Trading in wool and spices, but,
trade can often lead to conflict
with the local chieftains.
It was during one such conflict
that I was introduced
to the white powder
which you saw before.
It was thrown
in little clay pots
from one ship to another.
And when it came
into contact with water,
it reacted so ferociously
that it would burn through
wood, metal...
and flesh.
The floating dust would
bind on and choke
those who inhaled it.
When the wind changed,
the men wielding the powder
would sometimes kill themselves
as often as they'd kill our men.
It was a horrific sight.
And yet...
to the eyes
of a boy at the time...
it's just like watching magic.
Over the years since,
I've learnt much about
the creation of compounds
such as that one.
On my return to this land
as the plague arrived,
I turned my attention
to medicine.
I had a daughter.
Not much younger than you.
I had hoped I might find
a cure for her,
but I wasn't quick enough.
I don't think
I will ever find a cure now.
The devil is responsible
for this curse.
God could not create
something so cruel.
TORR: You intend
to steal from me.
Is that it?
You can return from
where you came
if you cannot be trusted.
What?
Were you planning to sell them?
No!
I want to find a cure too.
Teach me about all of this.
[INAUDIBLE]
[INDISTINCT CONVERSATION]
[BRANCHES CRACKING]
Wait here.
MAN: Hello?
You alone?
You live out here?
I could smell this a mile away.
I just need some food.
I'm going to take some.
All right?
It's gone.
What else have you got?
[GRUNTING]
[BOTH GRUNTING]
[TORR PANTING AND COUGHING]
Do you have any more?
[BREATHING HEAVILY]
Speak, boy.
Why are you here?
I'm a trader, from the East.
Trading in what?
Wool, fur, silver...
Many things.
TORR: What happened to you?
My horse bolted and I fell.
All of my clothes
and my possessions went with it.
Well, we've no need
for a tradesman here.
So you can be on your way
once you've finished.
May I not rest a while?
-I feel weak to my bones.
-[TORR SCOFFS]
You seem strong enough to me.
-One night.
-No.
There's barely room
for the two of us.
I must apologize
for striking you.
I had not eaten in days
I'm afraid my mind is on my own.
And I'm sorry
if I frightened you.
Are you family?
TORR: Yes.
I'm her father.
So you speak to me and not her,
do you understand?
Of course, I'm sorry.
I meant no offence.
I truly am grateful
for your kindness.
Had I not found you,
I'm certain
I'd have died out there
in the forest.
If I may ask
for a short time to rest?
I will be on my way
in a few hours.
I was wondering,
are you able to speak?
Oh, but you choose not to?
Good for you. Very wise.
I've talked myself out of some
spots over the years,
but it is likely I would be
far away from here
and far better off if I'd learnt
to keep my mouth shut.
Believe me.
How do you propose
to make a living as a tradesman
who doesn't speak?
Trade is a language
all of its own
as I'm sure you know
from your travels.
TORR: And where
have you travelled?
You must have stories to tell.
Perhaps tomorrow.
I'm very tired I should like
to settle down
before the fire dies.
Thank you both for the blanket
and your hospitality.
I hope I can repay you someday.
-[CLATTERING]
-[TORR MUTTERING]
That'll do.
What?
-It's time to go.
-Go?
Yes.
You've rested,
and now you must leave.
Here.
Some clothes.
Thank you.
Is there any way
I can convince you
to let me stay a little longer?
I'm a hard worker.
I'm sure you are,
but I'm afraid
that's impossible.
I can take you
to the nearest village if...
Bastard!
[GRUNTS HEAVILY]
You bring that here,
and you try and worm
your way under my roof.
You stay back!
He's infected.
No, I'm not.
TORR: You carry the mark.
What does this mean?
It means you must leave.
Am I going to die?
Yes.
You are going to die.
We can't save him,
and I won't allow him
to infect you.
So, that's it?
Don't make me ask you again.
Every minute you stay here
puts us at risk.
I'm going to escort you
away from here.
And you must never come back.
I'll go, I swear it.
No.
That's not good enough for me.
Move it.
Stay inside!
Why do you remain silent?
We both know you can speak.
So why do you choose not to?
You can't hide
from your demons forever.
What?
I'm not hiding here.
I face my demons every day.
You know nothing about it.
I have it too.
I should've told you sooner.
I'm sorry.
I've put you at risk being here.
I've been selfish
and reckless but...
if you were going
to catch it,
you would have by now.
Some people seem to be immune.
If you want to go, I understand.
I've tried curing myself...
but my time is running short.
My time is almost up,
but it's not for you.
You must face up to whatever
it is that's holding you back,
and I can help you...
if you're willing.
Burning the root
has a mild effect,
but if you eat it,
the effect is much stronger.
Time and place
will become fluid.
You will embark on a journey
which only you can take.
In there, you will find
the truth and you must face it.
Not everyone who takes
the journey returns the same.
Now lie back and relax.
And I will be waiting for you
upon your return.
[LOUD BANGING]
Who's there?
[BANGING CONTINUES]
Who is it?
[BANGING]
It's very late.
THE CLEANSER: Rumor tells me
you have found
the cause of the plague.
One of the villagers.
VICTORIA: She was a witch.
TOM: We've dealt with her now.
No cases have been
uncovered here since.
I wanted to consult
with you first,
but time was of the essence.
And found guilty
in full accordance with the law.
Her soul was cleansed
with water and fire.
She escaped.
She bewitched
one of the other villagers
and fled into the forest.
It was nothing
we could've prepared for.
THE CLEANSER:
As long as she lives,
the plague
will continue to spread.
I mounted a search party.
We were unable to find her.
The others were glad
to be rid of her
and didn't feel that
further pursuit was worthwhile.
THE CLEANSER:
Free to roam the land.
She's only young.
Wounded.
I doubt she's lasted until now.
THE CLEANSER: I'll deal
with her myself.
Wait!
What about Mary,
her accomplice?
THE CLEANSER: Do what
needs to be done.
[HEAVY BREATHING]
ALICE: Father, stop!
I've been seeing to your
cuts and bruises
since you were
old enough to stand.
Isn't it time
you stopped running?
[INDISTINCT CONVERSATION]
HUW: What on earth
have you been playing
at this time?
I was climbing by the waterfall
and I slipped.
Why can't you just behave
like the other children?
It's a miracle
that you're still alive.
It's not a miracle, Father.
A woman pulled me out.
Who?
I don't know, she came
from under the waterfall.
There is no woman
under the waterfall.
I will hear
no more of this nonsense.
It's not nonsense,
she gave me this.
Throw it in the fire.
Throw it in the fire!
You will never
speak of this again.
Do you understand?
Yes, Father!
As from now, I forbid you
to leave this village.
-What?
-You will remain
in my sight at all times.
-Look, I'll be more careful...
-No! Never again!
You cannot be trusted.
-I hate you.
-It is for your own safety.
-No, you don't.
-I hate you.
-That's enough.
-I hate you!
-Silence!
I want you to die!
Father?
This is my fault.
MATILDA: It's no one's fault.
I said that...
I wished this,
and it happened.
What's wrong with me, Mother?
Shh, you didn't
make this happen.
Words do not have
that power, my love.
[COUGHING]
[SOBBING]
[SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC PLAYING]
[MUSIC CONTINUES]
[BANGING]
[THE CLEANSER GRUNTS]
[COUGHS]
[COUGHING CONTINUES]
[BREATHING HEAVILY]
I know what you are.
You're a witch.
You cursed my daughter,
you cursed your whole village
and now you're trying
to curse me?
Don't speak!
You utter one word
and I will kill you right now.
I will not have you
trying to bewitch me.
I know that you twisted
the mind of that poor woman
that set you loose.
She's paying the price
for that now.
Don't play the innocent!
Was any of this real to you?
Our friendship?
Or were you just trying
to twist my mind?
I let you into my home.
It was the only thing I had left
that wasn't stained with blood
and now that's gone too.
You killed my mother!
I was trying to save her...
and you took away
my chance to.
That man as well...
I saw what you did to him.
I know why you did it.
It's your job to hold the law.
I can't forgive
what you've done,
but I'm willing to accept
who you are.
Could you not accept me
for who I am too?
You are like the snake of Eden.
I can't believe a single word
that comes out of your mouth.
What would it take
to show you I'm true?
-Lift the curse.
-I can't. I'm sorry.
-You can't or you won't?
-I can't!
You liar.
You are the devil himself.
-Please!
-Devil.
Devil!
For even the devil
disguises himself
as an angel of the light.
Stop!
[TORR BREATHING HEAVILY]
Take this water.
Cleanse yourself.
[SCREAMS]
[SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC PLAYING]
[COUGHING]
[ALL COUGHING]
What's going on?
What's burning?
We don't know.
The houses are all fine.
-TOM: It stinks.
-It's coming from the forest.
Who's out there? [COUGHS]
Show yourself, Devil!
[SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC PLAYING]
HENRY: Geoffrey! Geoffrey.
There are devils everywhere.
It's not possible.
What?
Go to your house
and lock the door.
Go!
[SCREAMS]
[COUGHING]
[COUGHS]
Please. I took no pleasure.
[SCREAMING]
I knew it was true.
We should have left you drown.
Drink, Victoria.
[COUGHS AND SPLUTTERS]
Here.
-No sign of her.
-No sign.
I've been seeing other things.
Like what?
Trees...
growing, the branches...
Oh, God!
What? What's wrong?
-Make it stop!
-Stop what?
-It won't stop!
-Walter.
It won't stop!
Walter!
Make them stop!
Stop! Stop!
[SCREAMS]
Oh, God!
-You too.
-What?
Your hand!
Alice!
ALICE: [WHISPERING] Thomas.
-Where are you?
-ALICE: [WHISPERING]
I'm here for you.
Come out and face me!
-Face me!
-ALICE: [WHISPERING] Here I am.
It's not too late, Alice.
Yes, it is.
Put an end
to this madness, please.
I never meant
for any of this to happen.
You did.
I've sinned. I know that.
We are both sinners.
But that does not mean
we are beyond salvation.
Cut me down
and we can pray
for our souls together.
Your words are meaningless.
So we were right about you.
You truly are bewitched
by the devil.
The devil didn't make me
what I am.
You did.
Then speak the words.
If what you say is true,
prove it. Speak the words.
Very well.
If it's proof you want.
Our Father,
who art in Heaven,
hallowed be Thy name.
Thy kingdom come,
thy will be done on Earth
as it is in Heaven.
Give us this day
our daily bread...
and forgive us our sins
as we forgive those
who sin against us.
Do not lead us
to the time of trial,
but rescue us from the evil one.
For thine is the kingdom,
the power and the glory.
Forever and ever.
Amen.
Alice?
The girl you knew is gone.
No. You've come back.